Hello this is Kirill from forexboat dot com.
And welcome back to the course on testing and optimization in MetaTrader 4. In the previous tutorial
we talked about exploring the results in Excel.
And today we're going to talk about the recovery factor.
So what is the recovery factor.
Well we know that in metatrader 4 there are multiple ratios that are already calculated for you for
example the profit factor the expected payoff are both ratios.
Then you also just have characteristics such as a drawdown in terms of value to it in terms of percentages
total number chairs and profit.
Moreover if you run any one of these optimization results as a back test and then you go to the graph
and then you go to the report you can see the same ratios and even more here such as the number of positions
that were won the short and long positions and consecutive wins and losses and so on a whole 1 ratio
that is missing out of all of this is the recovery factor.
And I find that a curry effect is a very important ratio in trading.
So what is the formula for the recovery factor.
Well it's pretty simple.
The recovery factor is your net profit divided but your max drawdown.
And let's have a look at data on an example.
So we go back to this chart here.
We're actually it's probably take a better chart.
Take one of these top ones.
So here you can see that your net profit was from $10000 to approximately twelve thousand eight hundred
.
So about $2800 this is your net profit and that's what is at in the numerator of the equation the net
profit.
So the total profit minus the gross profit months of gross loss and the maximum drawdown in terms in
dollar terms would be this one.
So if you divide your net profit by the maximal drawdown you get recovery factor and basically that
means it tells you how quickly a system will be able to recover from a drawdown.
So if your maximum drawdown is say $2000 and your net profit is $10000 then your recovery factual B5
meaning.
So a system move for higher recovery factor will climb out of its drawdowns faster and that's what you
want to happen when you're trading for your system to be able to get out of these drawdowns which inevitably
will happen because we can't predict everything 100 percent.
We will always have times when the system is underperforming so but we want the system to be able to
escape clum out of these as far as quickly as possible.
So that's what the recovery factor tells you about.
And unfortunately it's not an administrator for and not in any of the musician or results.
And but we can easily fix that by exploring results in Excel and adding that as an extra column.
So that's exactly what we're going to do today.
Here I have the results are we exported last time and after column G I'm just going to add in your columns
.
All right click here and I'll click insert and here I'll call it recovery factor.
And for the formula you want to divide your profit which is your net profit here.
You want to divide that by your drawdown percent.
So that's what we're going to type in here we're going to in equals.
And then you just click left on your keyboard.
Profit divided by draw down into the dollar.
So you get a percentage here.
But what we do want what we don't want to see it as a percentage.
We want to see it as a number.
So we go into our ratio and we're going to right click and we're going to click Format Cells and in
this window is just going to click number and maybe one decimal point is sufficient for us.
So we go we have a rationale and all you have to do now is just double click on this little box in the
corner we just need to double click it and it will copy the formula across to cross going down.
And so now if you click on the formula see that all of them are calculated as total net profit divided
by the maximum drawdown.
I'm just going to freeze the top pair and see if you just click on any cell and you go to Dahdah you
go to these sir and then you go free is paying you click free still prone.
If you scroll the top pros frozen and I'm sure many of you are already familiar with these Excel techniques
I'm just making sure that everybody is able to follow.
Now you can see that this recovery factor has been calculated.
I'm just going to I'm just going to change the color here quickly so that we can visually this so we
can see it better.
That's that's great enough.
All right.
So what we wanted to do is now we want to look for the best re-occur factors say if we order by profit
now then you'll see that the recovery factor is quite high here for some of the trades.
If they don't don't realize this great let's make it like green
as you can see the recovery factor is quite high and we'll talk more about this in the next tutorial
.
But you want to be aiming for recovery factor of at least two.
And but an interesting thing you might notice is that the recovery factor for this best result is not
as good as the recovery factor for this result which in terms of profit is lower.
And let's have a look at these two results back and get a trader for and see you why.
If we can spot the difference visually.
So if we go to a shelter for order by profit we run the first one.
So there's our chart and we can even save as picture and we'll save it as Rick have one.
And now if we go to optimization results and actually go to our spreadsheet This is 1 4 9 6 is the run
.
So if we set this one as parameters and we run it now go to the graph and save this picture.
Call this one too and I will look at them side by side.
So this is the second one that we run with less profitable one.
This is the first one that we ran.
You will notice right away that it does make sense that the recovery factor of this result is better
than this one because if this set climbs out of the drawdowns faster or so here it only took maybe 5
trades five new trades to climb out of this record of this drawdown.
Whereas here it took maybe 10 trades from tree number 41 to try and over 50 or even more to climb out
of this drawdown.
And that's that's exactly that proves our point.
So recovery factor is a very important parameter and I think it should be in the standard set of parameters
in or ratios in metatrader 4 but it's Herberts not at this stage.
Nevertheless we're able to calculate it in Excel.
That's all for today in the next tour and we'll talk about which parameters you should focus on when
optimizing your expert advisors in military form.
And until then Happy training